## Computational Ultrasound Imaging Toolbox for MATLAB

This MATLAB (The MathWorks Inc., Nattick, MA) toolbox facilitates
the development and evaluation of
computational ultrasound imaging (C-UI) methods for
freely programmable UI systems.

These methods recover
the acoustic material parameters in
a specified field of view from
a sequence of pulse-echo scattering experiments.
Each experiment comprises
(i) the synthesis of
an arbitrary incident wave and
(ii) the subsequent recording of
the resulting echoes via
a fully-sampled transducer array.

Considering soft tissue structures as lossy heterogeneous fluids,
the toolbox provides numerical solutions to
these inverse problems based on
discretized scattering operators and their adjoints.
These operators map
the relative spatial fluctuations in compressibility and/or mass density to
the RF voltage signals generated by
the elements of a transducer array.

It focuses on a simple usage.
Typical applications include
- regularized structured insonification,
- coded excitation, and
- compressed sensing / sparse recovery.

In contrast to
popular simulation tools, e.g. Field II,
the toolbox focuses on
the efficient computation of
the forward and adjoint scattering after
a setup and precomputation.

**Main Features**:

- d-dimensional Euclidean space (d = 2, 3)
- two types of heterogeneous acoustic material parameters: compressibility and mass density
- arbitrary dispersion relations describing
  the combined effects of frequency-dependent absorption and dispersion, e.g.
  the time-causal model
- arbitrary types of incident waves, including
  steered quasi-plane waves, quasi-(d-1)-spherical waves with virtual sources, focused beams, random waves, and coded waves
- powerful regularization methods based on lq-minimization (convex and nonconvex)
- efficient implementations using hierarchical matrix factorizations
- GPU support via mex / CUDA API

**Current Limitations**:

- Born approximation (future releases might support Rytov, WKB, and full wave solutions)
- linear systems (wave propagation, transfer behavior)
- pulse-echo mode, i.e. no transmission measurements
- symmetric grids (fast multipole method might be used in future releases)
- developed and tested in MATLAB R2018b / CUDA Toolkit v10.1.168 on Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04

**References**:

The physical models underlying this toolbox were published in:

[1] M. F. Schiffner, "Random Incident Waves for Fast Compressed Pulse-Echo Ultrasound Imaging", arXiv:1801.00205 [physics.med-ph]
[2] M. F. Schiffner and G. Schmitz, "Compensating the Combined Effects of Absorption and Dispersion in Plane Wave Pulse-Echo Ultrasound Imaging Using Sparse Recovery", 2013 IEEE Int. Ultrasonics Symp. (IUS), pp. 573--576, DOI: 10.1109/ULTSYM.2013.0148
[3] M. F. Schiffner and G. Schmitz, "The Separate Recovery of Spatial Fluctuations in Compressibility and Mass Density in Plane Wave Pulse-Echo Ultrasound Imaging", 2013 IEEE Int. Ultrasonics Symp. (IUS), pp. 577--580, DOI: 10.1109/ULTSYM.2013.0149

